apps/web/content/docs/(platform-features)/observability.mdx, before:

---
title: Observability
description: Monitor your tunnel traffic and debug requests in real-time.
icon: Activity
---

OutRay provides comprehensive observability tools to help you monitor your tunnels and debug issues with your local services.

## Real-time Request Logs

When you open a tunnel, OutRay captures detailed information about every HTTP request that passes through it. You can view these logs in real-time on your dashboard.

The logs include:

- **HTTP Method & Path**: See exactly what resource was requested.
- **Status Code**: Quickly identify failed requests (4xx, 5xx).
- **Duration**: Monitor the latency of your local service.
- **Response Size**: Track data transfer usage.
- **Client IP**: See where your traffic is coming from.

## Traffic Statistics

The dashboard provides an overview of your tunnel's performance over time:

- **Total Requests**: Track the volume of traffic hitting your tunnels.
- **Bandwidth Usage**: Monitor your data transfer consumption (both ingress and egress).
- **Success Rate**: Visualize the ratio of successful vs. failed requests.

## Historical Data

OutRay stores your request history so you can analyze past traffic patterns. The retention period depends on your subscription plan:

- **Free Plan**: 3 days retention
- **Ray Plan**: 14 days retention
- **Beam Plan**: 30 days retention
- **Pulse Plan**: 90 days retention

{/* ## Inspecting Requests */}

{/* You can click on any request in the log to view more details, including headers and query parameters. This is particularly useful for debugging webhook payloads or API integrations. */}

Commit message:

feat: add shadow traffic diff mode

apps/web/content/docs/(platform-features)/observability.mdx, after:

---
title: Observability
description: Monitor your tunnel traffic and debug requests in real-time.
icon: Activity
---

OutRay provides comprehensive observability tools to help you monitor your tunnels and debug issues with your local services.

## Real-time Request Logs

When you open a tunnel, OutRay captures detailed information about every HTTP request that passes through it. You can view these logs in real-time on your dashboard.

The logs include:

- **HTTP Method & Path**: See exactly what resource was requested.
- **Status Code**: Quickly identify failed requests (4xx, 5xx).
- **Duration**: Monitor the latency of your local service.
- **Response Size**: Track data transfer usage.
- **Client IP**: See where your traffic is coming from.

## Traffic Statistics

The dashboard provides an overview of your tunnel's performance over time:

- **Total Requests**: Track the volume of traffic hitting your tunnels.
- **Bandwidth Usage**: Monitor your data transfer consumption (both ingress and egress).
- **Success Rate**: Visualize the ratio of successful vs. failed requests.

## Historical Data

OutRay stores your request history so you can analyze past traffic patterns. The retention period depends on your subscription plan:

- **Free Plan**: 3 days retention
- **Ray Plan**: 14 days retention
- **Beam Plan**: 30 days retention
- **Pulse Plan**: 90 days retention

## Shadow Traffic + Diff

Shadow traffic lets you mirror live tunnel requests to a second local service and compare responses without affecting real users. This is useful for validating refactors, migrations, and new versions in real time.

Key ideas:

- **Non-blocking**: The primary response is returned as normal; shadow runs in parallel.
- **Diffs only**: You only see output when status, body hash, or selected headers differ.
- **Configurable**: Sampling, timeouts, and body caps keep it fast and safe.

Example:

```bash
outray http 3000 --shadow-port 4000 --shadow-headers content-type,cache-control
```

When differences occur, the CLI prints a concise diff line.

{/* ## Inspecting Requests */}

{/* You can click on any request in the log to view more details, including headers and query parameters. This is particularly useful for debugging webhook payloads or API integrations. */}
